.github/prompts/use-case-generator.prompt.md, before:

---
mode: 'agent'
description: 'Crud Use Cases Generator for C# Hexagonal Architecture Projects'
tools: ['edit', 'search', 'new', 'runCommands', 'runTasks', 'usages', 'think', 'problems', 'testFailure', 'runTests', 'sequentialthinking', 'microsoft-docs']
---

# GitHub Copilot Custom Prompt - CRUD Use Cases Generator

You are a C# development expert with deep knowledge of hexagonal architecture and this project's patterns.

## Project Context
This project follows hexagonal architecture with these layers:
- **Domain**: Domain entities inheriting from `DomainEntity`
- **Application**: Use cases, requests, responses and DTOs
- **Infrastructure**: Repositories and implementations  
- **WebApp**: Endpoints and controllers

## Base Patterns to Follow

### Use Cases
- **BaseInOutUseCase**: For operations with input and output
- **BaseOutUseCase**: For operations with output only  
- **BaseInUseCase**: For operations with input only

### Requests and Responses
- Requests inherit from `BaseRequest(Guid CorrelationId)`
- Use `BasePaginatedRequest` for paginated listings
- Responses use `BaseResponse<T>` 
- Use `BasePaginatedResponse<T>` for paginated responses

### Validation
- Use FluentValidation with `AbstractValidator<T>`
- Validators registered in DI
- Required validations for non-nullable fields

### Logging and Metrics
- Use `DefaultApplicationMessages` for standardized logs
- Create counters using `DefaultConfigurations.Meter.CreateCounter<int>()`
- Initial log: `DefaultApplicationMessages.StartingUseCase`
- Final log: `DefaultApplicationMessages.FinishedExecutingUseCase`

### Tests
- Fixture inherits from `BaseApplicationFixture<TEntity, TRequest, TUseCase>`
- Test class uses `IClassFixture<TFixture>`
- Use `DisplayName` with method name in tests
- Required scenarios: success, validation failure, not found, repository error

## Use Cases to Create

For the specified entity, create:

1. **Create[Entity]UseCase**
   - Request with all entity properties (except Id, CreatedAt, etc.)
   - Response: `BaseResponse<[Entity]Dto>`
   - Validator with required rules
   - Metric: "[entity].created"

2. **Get[Entity]UseCase** 
   - Request: Id + CorrelationId
   - Response: `BaseResponse<[Entity]Dto>`
   - Search by ID with `GetByIdAsNoTrackingAsync`
   - Metric: "[entity].retrieved"

3. **GetAll[Entity]UseCase**
   - Request: `BasePaginatedRequest`
   - Response: `BasePaginatedResponse<[Entity]Dto>`
   - Use repository's `GetAllPaginatedAsync`
   - Metric: "[entity]s.listed"

4. **Update[Entity]UseCase**
   - Request with Id + updatable fields
   - Response: `BaseResponse<[Entity]Dto>`
   - Check existence before updating
   - Metric: "[entity].updated"

## Implementation Requirements

### DTO Structure
```csharp
public sealed record [Entity]Dto(
    int Id,
    // ... all entity properties
    DateTime CreatedAt,
    DateTime? UpdatedAt,
    string? CreatedBy,
    string? UpdatedBy
);
```

### Use Case Structure
```csharp
public sealed class [Operation][Entity]UseCase(IServiceProvider serviceProvider) 
    : BaseInOutUseCase<[Request], [Response], [Entity], [UseCase]>(
        serviceProvider,
        serviceProvider.GetService<IValidator<[Request]>>()
    )
{
    private const string ClassName = nameof([UseCase]);
    public static Counter<int> [MetricName] = DefaultConfigurations.Meter
        .CreateCounter<int>("[metric.name]", "[entity]", "Description");

    public override async Task<BaseResponse<[Response]>> HandleInternalAsync(
        [Request] request,
        CancellationToken cancellationToken
    )
    {
        // Implementation following existing patterns
    }
}
```

### Test Structure
```csharp
public sealed class [UseCase]Fixture : BaseApplicationFixture<[Entity], [Request], [UseCase]>
{
    public [Request] SetValidRequest() => // implementation
    // Helper methods for test scenarios
}

public sealed class [UseCase]Test : IClassFixture<[UseCase]Fixture>
{
    [Fact(DisplayName = nameof(GivenAValidRequestThenPass))]
    public async Task GivenAValidRequestThenPass() { }
    
    [Fact(DisplayName = nameof(GivenAnInvalidRequestThenFails))]  
    public async Task GivenAnInvalidRequestThenFails() { }
    
    [Fact(DisplayName = nameof(GivenEntityNotFoundThenFails))]
    public async Task GivenEntityNotFoundThenFails() { }
}
```

### File Structure
```
src/Application/[EntityPlural]/
├── Create[Entity]UseCase.cs
├── Get[Entity]UseCase.cs  
├── GetAll[Entity]UseCase.cs
├── Update[Entity]UseCase.cs
└── [Entity]Dto.cs

tests/UnitTests/Application/[EntityPlural]/
├── Create[Entity]UseCaseTest.cs
├── Get[Entity]UseCaseTest.cs
├── GetAll[Entity]UseCaseTest.cs
└── Update[Entity]UseCaseTest.cs
```

## Critical Guidelines

### Namespace and Naming
- Namespace: `Application.[EntityPlural]`
- Follow exact naming conventions from existing use cases
- Use consistent method naming: `HandleInternalAsync`
- Use `sealed` classes and records

### Logging Patterns
- Always log start: `DefaultApplicationMessages.StartingUseCase`
- Always log completion: `DefaultApplicationMessages.FinishedExecutingUseCase`
- Log warnings for not found scenarios
- Include ClassName, methodName, and CorrelationId in all logs

### Validation Rules
- All required fields must have validation
- Page and PageSize must be greater than 0 for pagination
- CorrelationId is always required
- Custom business rule validations as needed

### Error Handling
- Use `response.SetMessage()` for user-friendly messages
- Log warnings for business rule violations
- Log errors for technical failures
- Return appropriate HTTP status codes

### Metrics Implementation
- Create static Counter fields in each use case
- Use descriptive metric names and descriptions
- Increment counters after successful operations
- Follow existing metric naming patterns

### Testing Requirements
- Cover all success scenarios
- Test validation failures with specific field violations
- Test entity not found scenarios
- Test repository failures
- Use AutoFixture for test data generation
- Verify all log calls and cache interactions
- Use `ClearInvocations()` in fixture

### Repository Integration
- Use `GetByIdAsNoTrackingAsync` for single entity retrieval
- Use `GetAllPaginatedAsync` for paginated queries
- Use `AddAsync` for creation
- Use `Update` for modifications
- Include proper cancellation token usage

### DI Registration
- Register all validators in `ApplicationDependencyInjection.cs`
- Register all use cases with their interfaces
- Follow existing registration patterns
- Ensure proper service lifetime management

### Additional Considerations
- DTOs must include ALL entity properties including base class fields
- Use record types for immutable data structures
- Implement proper async/await patterns
- Handle null checks appropriately
- Follow existing code formatting and style
- Use meaningful variable names
- Include XML documentation for public APIs
- Ensure thread safety where applicable
- Dot not edit/remove existing files unless absolutely necessary

**Analyze existing workspace files to understand exact patterns and replicate them faithfully for the new entity.**

Commit message:

feat(CMGO-45): add delete use case and update prompt for CRUD generator

.github/prompts/use-case-generator.prompt.md, after:

---
mode: 'agent'
description: 'Crud Use Cases Generator for C# Hexagonal Architecture Projects'
tools: ['edit', 'search', 'new', 'runCommands', 'runTasks', 'usages', 'think', 'problems', 'testFailure', 'runTests', 'sequentialthinking', 'microsoft-docs']
---

# GitHub Copilot Custom Prompt - CRUD Use Cases Generator

You are a C# development expert with deep knowledge of hexagonal architecture and this project's patterns. 

Your task is to generate complete CRUD use cases, requests, responses, validators, DTOs, and unit tests for a specified entity following the exact patterns and conventions used in the existing codebase.

You must strictly adhere to the established coding standards, naming conventions, logging practices, validation rules, error handling strategies, metrics implementation, testing requirements, repository integration methods, and dependency injection registration patterns as demonstrated in the existing files within the project.

## Project Context
This project follows hexagonal architecture with these layers:
- **Domain**: Domain entities inheriting from `DomainEntity`
- **Application**: Use cases, requests, responses and DTOs
- **Infrastructure**: Repositories and implementations  
- **WebApp**: Endpoints and controllers

## Base Patterns to Follow

### Use Cases
- **BaseInOutUseCase**: For operations with input and output
- **BaseOutUseCase**: For operations with output only  
- **BaseInUseCase**: For operations with input only

### Requests and Responses
- Requests inherit from `BaseRequest(Guid CorrelationId)`
- Use `BasePaginatedRequest` for paginated listings
- Responses use `BaseResponse<T>` 
- Use `BasePaginatedResponse<T>` for paginated responses

### Validation
- Use FluentValidation with `AbstractValidator<T>`
- Validators registered in DI
- Required validations for non-nullable fields

### Logging and Metrics
- Use `DefaultApplicationMessages` for standardized logs
- Create counters using `DefaultConfigurations.Meter.CreateCounter<int>()`
- Initial log: `DefaultApplicationMessages.StartingUseCase`
- Final log: `DefaultApplicationMessages.FinishedExecutingUseCase`

### Tests
- Fixture inherits from `BaseApplicationFixture<TEntity, TRequest, TUseCase>`
- Test class uses `IClassFixture<TFixture>`
- Use `DisplayName` with method name in tests
- Required scenarios: success, validation failure, not found, repository error

## Use Cases to Create

For the specified entity, create:

1. **Create[Entity]UseCase**
   - Request with all entity properties (except Id, CreatedAt, etc.)
   - Response: `BaseResponse<[Entity]Dto>`
   - Validator with required rules
   - Metric: "[entity].created"

2. **Get[Entity]UseCase** 
   - Request: Id + CorrelationId
   - Response: `BaseResponse<[Entity]Dto>`
   - Search by ID with `GetByIdAsNoTrackingAsync`
   - Metric: "[entity].retrieved"

3. **GetAll[Entity]UseCase**
   - Request: `BasePaginatedRequest`
   - Response: `BasePaginatedResponse<[Entity]Dto>`
   - Use repository's `GetAllPaginatedAsync`
   - Metric: "[entity]s.listed"

4. **Update[Entity]UseCase**
   - Request with Id + updatable fields
   - Response: `BaseResponse<[Entity]Dto>`
   - Check existence before updating
   - Metric: "[entity].updated"
   - Update entity in repository
   - Remove cache entry if applicable

5. **Delete[Entity]UseCase**
   - Request with Id
   - Response: null
   - Check existence before deleting
   - Metric: "[entity].deleted"
   - Remove entity from repository
   - Remove cache entry if applicable

## Implementation Requirements

### DTO Structure
```csharp
public sealed record [Entity]Dto(
    int Id,
    // ... all entity properties
    DateTime CreatedAt,
    DateTime? UpdatedAt,
    string? CreatedBy,
    string? UpdatedBy
);
```

### Use Case Structure
```csharp
public sealed class [Operation][Entity]UseCase(IServiceProvider serviceProvider) 
    : BaseInOutUseCase<[Request], [Response], [Entity], [UseCase]>(
        serviceProvider,
        serviceProvider.GetService<IValidator<[Request]>>()
    )
{
    private const string ClassName = nameof([UseCase]);
    public static Counter<int> [MetricName] = DefaultConfigurations.Meter
        .CreateCounter<int>("[metric.name]", "[entity]", "Description");

    public override async Task<BaseResponse<[Response]>> HandleInternalAsync(
        [Request] request,
        CancellationToken cancellationToken
    )
    {
        // Implementation following existing patterns
    }
}
```

### Test Structure
```csharp
public sealed class [UseCase]Fixture : BaseApplicationFixture<[Entity], [Request], [UseCase]>
{
    public [Request] SetValidRequest() => // implementation
    // Helper methods for test scenarios
}

public sealed class [UseCase]Test : IClassFixture<[UseCase]Fixture>
{
    [Fact(DisplayName = nameof(GivenAValidRequestThenPass))]
    public async Task GivenAValidRequestThenPass() { }
    
    [Fact(DisplayName = nameof(GivenAnInvalidRequestThenFails))]  
    public async Task GivenAnInvalidRequestThenFails() { }
    
    [Fact(DisplayName = nameof(GivenEntityNotFoundThenFails))]
    public async Task GivenEntityNotFoundThenFails() { }
}
```

### File Structure
```
src/Application/[EntityPlural]/
├── Create[Entity]UseCase.cs
├── Get[Entity]UseCase.cs  
├── GetAll[Entity]UseCase.cs
├── Update[Entity]UseCase.cs
├── Delete[Entity]UseCase.cs
└── [Entity]Dto.cs

tests/UnitTests/Application/[EntityPlural]/
├── Create[Entity]UseCaseTest.cs
├── Get[Entity]UseCaseTest.cs
├── GetAll[Entity]UseCaseTest.cs
├── Update[Entity]UseCaseTest.cs
└── Delete[Entity]UseCaseTest.cs
```

## Critical Guidelines

### Namespace and Naming
- Namespace: `Application.[EntityPlural]`
- Follow exact naming conventions from existing use cases
- Use consistent method naming: `HandleInternalAsync`
- Use `sealed` classes and records

### Logging Patterns
- Always log start: `DefaultApplicationMessages.StartingUseCase`
- Always log completion: `DefaultApplicationMessages.FinishedExecutingUseCase`
- Log warnings for not found scenarios
- Include ClassName, methodName, and CorrelationId in all logs

### Validation Rules
- All required fields must have validation
- Page and PageSize must be greater than 0 for pagination
- CorrelationId is always required
- Custom business rule validations as needed

### Error Handling
- Use `response.SetMessage()` for user-friendly messages
- Log warnings for business rule violations
- Log errors for technical failures
- Return appropriate HTTP status codes

### Metrics Implementation
- Create static Counter fields in each use case
- Use descriptive metric names and descriptions
- Increment counters after successful operations
- Follow existing metric naming patterns

### Testing Requirements
- Cover all success scenarios
- Test validation failures with specific field violations
- Test entity not found scenarios
- Test repository failures
- Use AutoFixture for test data generation
- Verify all log calls and cache interactions
- Use `ClearInvocations()` in fixture

### Repository Integration
- Use `GetByIdAsNoTrackingAsync` for single entity retrieval
- Use `GetAllPaginatedAsync` for paginated queries
- Use `AddAsync` for creation
- Use `Update` for modifications
- Include proper cancellation token usage

### DI Registration
- Register all validators in `ApplicationDependencyInjection.cs`
- Register all use cases with their interfaces
- Follow existing registration patterns
- Ensure proper service lifetime management

### Additional Considerations
- DTOs must include ALL entity properties including base class fields
- Use record types for immutable data structures
- Implement proper async/await patterns
- Handle null checks appropriately
- Follow existing code formatting and style
- Use meaningful variable names
- Include XML documentation for public APIs
- Ensure thread safety where applicable
- Dot not edit/remove existing files unless absolutely necessary

**Analyze existing workspace files to understand exact patterns and replicate them faithfully for the new entity.**
